remember to put it somewhere okay there
we go recording this is the Tuesday
September 10 package managers weekly
meeting on Sprint planning
extraordinaire we can talk about things
it's gonna be great
I shouldn't though at least first cuz
I've been out for two weeks because of
the death it's not the Deaf flu it was
four separate not happy thanks full flu
the Deaf flu yeah what's an even flu the
West strip that's one of the things not
great
so anyways um would anyone like to let
the world know I'm only up to you this
week oh hey Molly also pause board for
fun but I don't know if y'all even been
using that over the last two weeks so
might not actually helpful but yeah
[Music]
someone I'll just choose a person a Dean
hey how you doing what's up
come on tell the world or tell me at
least so number where you are when you
were when the last meeting occurred
however I been working on the pub/sub
discovery things or just discovery
things in Liberty in general so that
hopes it doesn't just assume you
randomly bumble into peers and then that
will be enough I pushed out a couple PRS
adding some utilities to help make
Discovery easier like like caching and
back off so that you don't keep querying
over and over and over again and
hammering whatever the system is when
it's like I just asked for data
yesterday you know I kind of think and
now I'm doing some integration work into
hub sub with the discovery which should
hopefully have a PR PR has been ongoing
for a while but hopefully should have
another draft that's like basically good
to go soon and then I think I'm gonna
get grabbed to do a couple things
related to ipfs tinning bugs and things
of that nature
for a little bit before I make my way
back to IPS tonight which would be which
would be the next thing on the list
sounds good
is the list still the list so I can I'll
go look at the usual list and see what's
up
so the list is still the list although I
haven't added anything for ipfs pinning
I'm not sure if that's that is what I
think I'm gonna be doing but I don't
know if that's strictly package manager
related I mean it's it's important but I
don't know if it's like falls into like
one of our strictly on tasks buckets so
Hector better meet some of these fixes
for cluster and cluster adventures so I
think we can make the argument
I thought team cluster was paused for
the moment
Tim cluster is currently paused but I
know they have stuff already waiting
you're ready to go on turning features
that we just don't have that's what I
heard this is around like sharding up
data between nodes yep that is true does
that I've been out for two weeks clearly
so I don't know what the latest is but
it has someone pushed on that the last
couple weeks I know but the work on
their readiness work on pinning stuff
would make it as more flexible so you
can put arbitrary metadata in them or
extra metadata and then that would a lot
closer to like I have custom ins like I
can up to this depth stuff like that ya
know which I agree is totally awesome
I'm just trying to sort
where I am from the last couple weeks so
is that something a Dean that is just
low hanging fruit to take off or did
some alright how did that end up on your
list basically is what I'm trying to ask
because I'm curious
ended up on the list go ahead see got me
so there is a bug yeah that I wanted to
fix and then that all the dogs until I
queued up getting back out this also
comes think it makes it affected I this
is something we needed for her a while
and like right now we have problems like
you can't list pins without taking ages
I wouldn't if you pin enough data
pinning becomes really slow and there
are other ways to fixing this don't
require blue interact system but we kind
of want to do it anyways and we were
consistent easier to fix this otherwise
you have to like do a bunch of like
purple messing seems like it'll be
relevant for people who have say a large
directory of files like large set of
packages such that they can list their
set of pins right no I see and depends
if it's all in one big directory this
isn't that important if you have many
many things this is kind of important at
the moment people like complain
miserably about like they copy an ad and
just takes ages to actually Kim the damn
thing this would fix that but I don't
offensive the factory editor depends how
they work if everything is one big
directory it doesn't make much of a
difference yeah I haven't seen that pop
up with any system level package
managers because it is literally just
one pin
one of those things where we basically
have the same people in like go ipfs
meeting and this meeting and some people
get pulled to both things just falling
into that category it sounds like
basically but like my my concern here is
like it is something that's more
important than a lot of the IPS stuff
we're like yeah penis stuff like is
affordable sorry it's we're pressing at
the moment because you have to that
stuff is also currently blocked on the
testing in front we're like here's a
it's locked onto YouTube we've been such
a block of testing and for us it's like
we couldn't start trying to make easy
improvements at this point but it's like
really hard to possibly test those
verify that we're doing the right thing
so the hope you're as short of like work
on this for a bit well we kept testing
it for in place then we can fix the TV
problems then we can go back and like
start working on like IP Ness related to
you see problems but otherwise you're
shooting the dark please that's my
opinion there the other options were
work on something related to GC or like
work on improving like MF s internals
and stuff like that but this was the
close the closest to my penis that we
had because it enables things like but
makes it easier to make things like my
penis follow or sorry yeah didn't fall
out we're like you can tell you fault
like basically pin this thing but follow
this IPS key like keep on getting
updates which is also worked record not
important but it's useful back Avengers
I would actually like to talk through
these priorities with Andrew a bit
because like I want to make sure that we
are targeting something it is useful and
if it's something that's more useful
then we can pivot
I don't yeah sorry I know it hasn't
started working on this yes catch-up for
me and also all the other things yeah no
yeah exactly like whatever seems like
highest priority we'll just sort of move
to that it'll help to know doing the
pinning things will help a little bit
just in terms of like getting me more
familiar with the area to code when I
have to do the penis spinning things
those shouldn't be so so hard or so bad
it's it's just some like
if you don't feel that the needs to be
perfect about it I'm pretty sure we can
just get stuff done because there's
there's things later just like oh the
interfaces don't allow for third-party
republishing but everything else does
part of this was also named pins which
annoys people all the time like we don't
have them well which I think like
significally improve the UX around
vendors but there's lots of things that
I know a lots of yeah all the time
so the questions like what do I do next
yeah what did always package maintainers
that's what it's like the the guy yeah
the theory behind that was it like we
wanted name pins to have in follow so
that we can Mitama Klee like in and
unpin things at the moment like if you
pin something and then I've been
something else and then they happen to
like point to the same thing at one
foresight if I pin if I can call for the
follow on to my penis record you call
can follow it's my penis right there and
then at some point the converts the
probably the same thing and then they
diverge then like I'll end up on
painting your thing like as I like unpin
something to be clean the next thing
right like the pin in the new thing this
I feel Specter points to which we
obviously don't want again I'm not sure
this is all that useful for package
managers which is why I was like to talk
this through with next episode of take
that part offline because like this song
super interesting but I think I would
parse it better if I was written down I
mean I'm a discussion about I was gonna
be my question Stephen is the logic
behind all of this and I like short
paragraph anywhere no it's just a
conversation
no this is a conversation with the Dean
okay we'll follow up on that later and
note that Andrew wrote a thing in the
group chat there about ipfs ad so my
question is this the same or different
than the ipfs I had improvements that we
haven't I this is different
so doubt like I this ad was on the table
that was the like work on MDF stuff I do
think that is probably more pressing I
didn't want to work on this because it's
closer to IPS today okay
well we'll find a time to chat
separately and all that probably the
action is you know Dean Steve maybe
enter me that kind of thing and we'll
sort out what that looks like
my self a note so I remember that thing
cool anything else a Dean and thank you
for the background both of you
you're set okay choose oh that's it
there are some specs they've been
published
almost yeah what okay well they're
either PR door they're merged it's
depending yeah yeah beautiful
choose your the sorry person let's go
next Andrew you've been here for a while
but you have lots of updates not on the
board I don't I've been working through
today I have tried to write up the kind
of outline of the thing I already did
going backwards a little bit but
essentially the like hypothesis and the
set up for an experiment for this
release review system that I've built
and I'm going to use that and it needs
to be squished because it's quite long
right now um the kind of introduction
for onboarding some people into the
system and using it I'm already using it
for itself now so it's kind of snake
eating its own tail but I definitely
want to spend this week getting the
messaging right and an onboarding some
people so that can actually like start
to get real good feedback loops going
with them and feeling the the pain
involved in doing it if there is any or
if I'd actually like to get the
experiment going now that I have enough
to to do that I can link to the two what
I've been writing up but it's not quite
finished and it doesn't have any like
explanation or links into the actual
system so what I was going to do next
was record a short screencast
that basically goes step through the
what I've written up and then shows a
real example using the agile system so
that people can kind of easily watch
that five minutes and go like oh yeah
okay I see why this is interesting and I
see how this is relevant and I would
like to get involved and the sense of I
would like try using it and then start
to interview those people and like get a
feedback in and go from there do I need
it yeah
Dirk is next on my room hey so I've had
pretty busy a couple of weeks since I
saw you Michelle so let's see on Monday
I am a presentation about this well
you're just kind of explaining what it
is in the improvements that we're making
um and then I got some really good
feedback actually from for Molly and
Steven and a couple other people and so
thank you guys for that and what else
what I've been doing so I'm working on
my perfect concept for some of the ideas
that myself and Steven came up with for
improving bits for performance is this
called being recorded can I talk about
our collaboration the call is being
recorded
we can together I can talk in general
terms basically a collaboration partner
wanted us to in order to kind of move
forward with the project into the next
quarter we had to hit a target and it
looks like we've now hit that target so
that used it's not going to intro there
will be under anyway I mean when's the
last time we heard like unfortunate
unfortunately partially an IP that's
hitting a performance target high five
team we're doing it getting there
so I have to say he has also been doing
a ton of work and he's kind of like
everyday time okay what can I do that
someone's got annoyed emotions so in the
meantime I'm just kind of fixing up the
proof of concept to make it to like test
it properly and to implement it properly
because what I want to add was really
turned together so I'm expecting to get
most of the way towards finishing that
off by the end of the week am i bleeding
- next week a little bit one more update
is that I'm gonna be out on Monday
any questions sparkle donors that's all
pick a person donate what do you have -
sure
so I've got a bit of bad news here this
is more of a non update than an update
basically it's been brought to my
attention that I am failing meet
expectations on this effort so yeah I
mean that's the case I don't disagree
with this it is the situation so I
basically have an ultimatum where I need
to finish this or not I have to make
that decision in kind of today I'm eager
to try and get this accomplished but I
I've spoken to a number of people about
this and they're reasonable people and
they're not very confident in it so it's
really all I can say is that I've not
met expectations up to this point and
I'm going to try to fulfill the
expectations that are there now but what
can I say I've made empty promises
already and tried and failed already so
that's that but I am NOT going to be
deterred by that so that's where I'm at
I don't know who's left to go dumb is
there anything we can do to help now
they all will be fine still bother you
later
you
yes I can
let's see who else is uh Alex I suppose
has more than me
yeah I felt like actually pretty far
from the package management role
recently I've been working on getting
more automation into the DFS build
because I've taken over the release
process for this iteration and I'm
trying to basically automate as much as
possible
because the first few steps are just
this is stuff that computer should do I
should type into machines crazy crazy
anyway so that's what I'm working and it
is pressing yeah it's gonna involve some
trying to stabilize our interrupts us a
bit because they're pretty flaky because
you want to so the first few steps of
the hill at are like make sure CIO is
green and make sure the interrupt tests
pass and was kind of things like well we
run the interrupts test as part of our
bill present at the moment it's just a
repo that you check out and you on the
test for so adding I'm making it into a
proper module you can invoke from the
come on line and so then it just becomes
a command line tool which you can run
against go and chase really easily you
don't have to fiddle around with a lot
of commands that were in there and
actually change some of that but it was
right on cue yes if there are questions
and then there was a question it was
like I think your settings are correct
because we could hear you to just maybe
somebody walked right into the that
phone projecting problematic bounces off
the window behind me move straight into
the well apparently they have to shout
no one's checking the emails
anyone check an area I feel personally
attacked by this person who's not even
on my college right I mean this guy
could has completely filtered out so I
can't really hear anything anyone now
side of my head saying you tell me what
did they say well it sounds like um I
have a quick again I'm package manager
related question for you Alex I'm kind
of related to the various JSI PFS things
you've been pushing on especially some
of the a sigmoid stuff which is my my
vague expectation is that Ellen is fully
out on paternity leave now so a number
of JSF PFS related things are falling on
your shoulders is this correct is there
any other any other update related to
your capacity to participate on the
package manager side of things or other
things that we should make sure we're
we're aware of yeah I think it's going
to be significantly diminished how
there's not yet a new dad but he's
preparing to like Lizzie was to
yesterday so this is imminent like any
any literally any second yes lots of
ipfs baby grows in a really expensive
baby cries we bought some like the
present a pre baby present I was shocked
shocked and dismayed yeah I mean so I've
been trying to step in so like yesterday
on the call like the confrontations
cause I was trying to give updates from
the Jays perspective you know I'm gonna
pick up the stuff - how was doing so
you're gonna be trying to keep her
up-to-date with Ike on top of the new
issues that are open try to Trillo some
of them and you know you know all that
other kind of stuff so my capacity for
chess I'll give us stuff will be
significantly diminished well I will be
leaning on you for four very Astraeus
ipfs related things as well so
I guess like I guess plays first also
here um so lean on me if there's
anything that that I can do to help but
I'll sing up with you specifically like
over slack about adding adding more
capacity to that team
cool we've got like four when does let's
call it if I got another 15 or four
since the time changed
I think we have another 15 I think 45
minutes okay awesome
thank you great who should follow up
after Alex let's see I suppose Molly do
you have any updates for the team why
are you if you come to the plit FST
meeting we'll talk a little bit about
okay ours but we're nearing the end of
the quarter and that means that this
team in particular probably is a little
a little close to though care if you
took on since we shuffled them like
ready
but the generally other we're starting
to think about q4 and q4 has a lab week
in it and q4 has you know a lot of
holidays for various people so thinking
about that but that's something that's
on my mind I'm also planning to chat
with some of the the collab folks that
Dirk is working with to make sure that
you know we do our best to continue that
project forward as a collab but I think
there's been tons of amazing progress
that we've already seen and kind of
regardless I think it's something we
will continue working on and pushing on
and because it seems such amazing
returns in terms of the top improvements
that are happening there so that's
another thing that's on my agenda
I think that's next week that we're
gonna be checking in on that I think and
then other yeah I guess in general like
package manager related stuff I think
it'd be useful to just reflect on on
kind of the the set of goals that we we
took for ourselves at the beginning of
the quarter and like our understanding
of the most important things for systems
package managers and make sure that we
have like that clear in the front of our
mind as where as we're looking into the
work that we're doing and and feature
like projects to take on because I think
that we we felt like we had a really
clear understanding of that at the
beginning of the quarter and I think
that's somewhat like slipped out of the
forefront of our minds or our closeness
to that
a picture of exactly what the the top
blockers are is is less clear than it
was back then and so I think maybe
that's revisiting like Rita talked on
those things diving back into the
corners or rerunning one of our proof of
concepts to with some of these changes
to understand where where new
bottlenecks are or something along those
lines but something that I've been
hearing kind of throughout the team and
also feeling myself is that we're we're
a little bit further away from a direct
understanding of those user pain points
and we should get closer to them so that
we make sure that we're always
optimizing for the most important stuff
sorry
well okay well I suppose I should tell
you all what I'm planning on doing this
week I haven't planning doing this week
then thing that I had hoped to do last
week but then was still super sick which
is catching up on all the things and
updating my issues here but also I was
thinking the schedule speaking of
priorities and all that to connect with
Andrew on so we have that draft diagram
with the service blueprint with the
[Music]
system package managers kind of semi
user during any sort of work I want to
do the same thing for the database based
ones which will be a little bit more
complicated and then get that shared out
a lot better than I already has been but
then also I need to just check in with
everybody and see where X I've been gone
for two weeks so I did that a bit with
Andrew yesterday Molly I know we're
trying to sort of time to do that as
well and of course anyone else on the
team that wants to chat sounds like I'll
be bothering Dominic maybe I'll bother
Dean at some point it'll be great
they'll just be lovely and I'll
hopefully get up to speed on all the
things and then get back into helping
push forward all the stuff that's been
talked about in our retros and other
other things about things that are you
know blocking a team from doing the best
work that they feel again so help keep
helping on those things yep those are
the things I think for the week let's
see who else anyone else on the call
that I miss that let's see that wants to
even update you I'm not really sure who
at this point since you know it's a more
open call who should be give me an
update in this call or know what so II
think you should be or if someone else
one's opinion or wants to ask someone
else feel free or if it's not even an
update if someone's on the call and
you're here because you have a thing
that you want to say we've got 15
minutes now it seems like share
so I guess something I was just in as I
at least for for me I'm noticing that
like this this the end of the month is
approaching quickly because I'm gonna be
in Macau for a conference at the end of
the month and I'll have some time to
push on the discovery stuff and
hopefully get put out the door and then
whatever the next thing I pick up I
think is probably just more related to
whatever our next quarters set of goals
are and deciding like some of the things
whether it was like odd performance that
for various reasons didn't quite end up
happening this time or or other things
that right there's like a huge list of
things to choose the priorities from
picking out like I guess figure out what
I need to do and what the next two weeks
see is like not so important in this
game oh really these are really just all
about what's next quarter so we can
prioritize that however we want it
sounds good I'd be curious to maybe
after I'm caught up a little bit more it
it doesn't feel like I have the the
right brain update to do it right now
but it might be useful to reserve some
time before next quarter for us either
remotely will probably remotely that's
easier just as a team to do some
prioritization exercises as a group and
see where that falls out with input you
know present input wherever it stands
from the research that Andrews been
doing and you all would have what you've
been learning and then go from there
but we will see I mean I'd love to see
person but we got a lot going on and we
have to actually do the work so probably
remote we can find like little chunks of
time so you see each other quote-unquote
in person and you know hold the pipettes
up and also do lots of good
like distributed whiteboarding the kind
of thing
anyone else
this might be the
spam
it
can go back to your day I suppose
I'm looking forward to Andrews screen
recording it's so great I was really
excited
how excited are just unrelated to that I
recorded a podcast interview on Sunday
with the previous leader of the Debian
project Chris lamb who is one of the
developers on the reproducible build
project we didn't talk about any ipfs
specific stuff but there was a lot of
talk around kind of sharing hashes of
reproducible stuff and trying to reach
consensus on things as but he didn't he
wasn't like a hundred percent on all of
the details so he's very much like oh I
didn't want to speak for someone else so
I would give he links to point to other
areas but there was lots of interesting
discussion there around system package
managers seeing themselves as like part
of a supported product rather than many
language package managers will be like
oh this is a free-for-all you can't like
you're not expected to be able to use
all these packages together there's no
guarantees of like a working set it's is
they're all independent whereas the
Debian system has a release every 18
months and that is one of the highest
priority things is the experience of
using the Debian system which then may
have like different other kind of
auxilary registries or so like the
unstable packages on don't have the same
kind of priorities when it comes to
deciding like should these things go in
or not which is interesting because it's
it's almost like
what debian are saying for their
mainline stuff is like this is there's
more decisions that go into it and we
see it as like one big lump there's also
a whole load of automation that they
have going from essentially like once
something has been tagged as saying in
some source control this package is okay
to be released everything like all the
flow from it going from that point all
the way through to the like being
available to app get install is
automated
whereas for lots of language package
managers it's like just post a tarball
that you generated yourself on your
laptop to this registry and then that
will be distributed out to other people
so there's interesting there was of
automation that don't exist in language
package managers that possibly would be
interesting to explore as well
I will send around a link to the to the
episode once it has been edited because
it's full of all kinds of weird
sidetrack bits around University
education and windows and things but
when that sir when that's been edited
then I was handing around
and then there's a couple more
interviews coming up for that podcast
one with the people behind packages the
PHP package manager who have like
private packages the company hosting the
thing and talking about the tension
between the public and the private
versions and then I'm also trying to
arrange a call with the etherium package
manager' people which happens to use
ipfs as their storage for all of their
archives and so that'd be interesting
and if anyone wants
me with someone else that'll be
interesting to talk to then you know
where to find me
hmm speaking very briefly I don't know
if there's anyone who I feel like I've
already called it under this meeting but
Eric Meyer mentioned a conference that's
happening in Berlin the 20th through
22nd of September called all systems go
which has a lot of people from various
package manager' communities it has some
people from openSUSE has people from a
number of other places whose names I'm
forgetting all of a sudden it also has
like you know general large industry
players but it is talking about like use
of go and various Linux system stuff
Eric is going but if anyone else wants
to go I think it's it unfortunately
conflicts with a number of people's
schedules but and it's slightly short
timing but it seems like a cool
conference and if if we do get a lot of
people who want to attend I'm sure we
can do things like run a protocol
tutorial or like otherwise be present in
that area we might find awesome people
to join the community help out with this
or just contribute their their expertise
in kind of the intersection of package
managers and reproducible builds so
could be cool those are lots of
container related stuff looking in the
schedule
I mean to the extent that the Eric Myers
Michelle to your question in chat like
today except that Eric is going and will
talk to people but like we don't have
any one else to send and specifically do
that sort of stuff got it
I suppose I don't you might prep him
with anything he needs or remind him to
encourage people to apply for it Goins
positions which I might be it I know if
it needs anything other than hi here's a
link right here in my hand this is a leg
think the referral program is going to
incentivize them a little bit better the
referral program is probably going to
incentivize them a bit he's already
please he's already planning to people
okay and we've been looking for go
people to so but um one thing I want to
just mention about the conference look
like it it sort of spawned out of the
system D community so it's not it's no
longer at the system T conference but
it's still very much kind of in that
same existing world stuff so it
definitely has a lot of sort of package
management stuff but all from the view
of like Linux user land kind of
administration stuff so - it's a
slightly different perspective but I
tend to look at actually
okay cool hmm I'll catch up with you
Andrew later to see if there's some user
research or something we can sit up if
that makes sense there are somewhere
else thinking of getting more regular
user feedback so we'll do that anything
else you have four minutes although a
lot of us have another meeting right
after this you could also take the four
minutes to go like get a snack and get
tea and not look at the screen like get
up and walk a little it's important
actually yeah we're not talking about
anything else we're getting off this
call and everybody should stand up and
like do a little dance or something bye
everybody